INSTALL.md, before:

# Installation
Copy the dino-date directory to the machine you will use as your server.  This location will need to meet the requirements for the language you intend to use.

## Database Instructions

**IMPORTANT - Please make sure you're using a database instance in which you can safely create schema named 'DD', 'DD_NON_EBR' AND 'DD_LOGGER'.**

### Prerequisite Technologies
[Logger](https://github.com/OraOpenSource/Logger)

### Installation
1. Download and unzip logger into the coreDatabase directory.
 You will use the new Logger directory name to answer the question in step 5, e.g. logger_3.1.1
2. Check the end of Logger's create_user.sql file, if you see an exit, remove it.
3. Navigate to the coreDatabase directory.
4. Using an application such as SQL*Plus or [SQL Developer](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/developer-tools/sql-developer/overview/index.html), run **dd_master_install.sql** connected as SYSDBA.
5. The first prompt asks for the directory you extracted logger into, e.g. logger_3.1.1
6. The second prompt asks for what you want to name the logger schema, e.g. dd_logger
7. The third and fourth prompts are asking for your Tablespace and Temporary Tablespace
8. The fourth prompt asks for the logger schema password, e.g. dd

## [Common Client](https://github.com/oracle/dino-date/commonClient/tree/master/README.md) Instructions
client pages used by all mid-tier restful interfaces.

### Prerequisite Technologies
* [bower](http://bower.io/#install-bower)

### Installation
Open a prompt in the dino-date/commonClient directory

```
bower install
```

## Restful API Tier by Language
You can install one or more languages.  They can be run simultaneously as long as the configured ports are different.

## Python

### Prerequisites
[Oracle Instant Client Basic and SDK Packages](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/instant-client/index-097480.html).

#### Software
* Python 3.x
* Modules
  * cx_Oracle
  * bottle
  * os

### Installation
Open a propmt in the dino-date/python directory

```
pip install cx_Oracle
pip install bottle
```

## Node.js

### Prerequisites
[Oracle Instant Client Basic and SDK Packages](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/instant-client/index-097480.html).

#### Software
* Node.js
* Modules
   * async
   * body-parser
   * express
   * jsonwebtoken
   * morgan
   * oracledb
   * serve-static

### Installation
Open a propmt in the dino-date/nodejs directory

```
npm install
```

## Configure Your Environment

DinoDate uses environment variables for database connection and port settings.

Create the following environment variables using the correct values for your system.
* dd_connectString=localhost:1521/orcl
* dd_user=dd
* dd_password=dd
* dd_port=8888
* dd_python_port=8080
* dd_node_port=3000

## Ruby
Coming Soon!

## PHP
Coming Soon!

Commit message:

added changes to config to allow selection of client side framework.  Stubbed in Oracle Jet client

INSTALL.md, after:

# Installation
Copy the dino-date directory to the machine you will use as your server.  This location will need to meet the requirements for the language you intend to use.

## Database Instructions

**IMPORTANT - Please make sure you're using a database instance in which you can safely create schema named 'DD', 'DD_NON_EBR' AND 'DD_LOGGER'.**

### Prerequisite Technologies
[Logger](https://github.com/OraOpenSource/Logger)

### Installation
1. Download and unzip logger into the coreDatabase directory.
 You will use the new Logger directory name to answer the question in step 5, e.g. logger_3.1.1
2. Check the end of Logger's create_user.sql file, if you see an exit, remove it.
3. Navigate to the coreDatabase directory.
4. Using an application such as SQL*Plus or [SQL Developer](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/developer-tools/sql-developer/overview/index.html), run **dd_master_install.sql** connected as SYSDBA.
5. The first prompt asks for the directory you extracted logger into, e.g. logger_3.1.1
6. The second prompt asks for what you want to name the logger schema, e.g. dd_logger
7. The third and fourth prompts are asking for your Tablespace and Temporary Tablespace
8. The fourth prompt asks for the logger schema password, e.g. dd

## [Common Client](https://github.com/oracle/dino-date/commonClient/tree/master/README.md) Instructions
client pages used by all mid-tier restful interfaces.

### Prerequisite Technologies
* [bower](http://bower.io/#install-bower)

### Installation
## Jet
Download the Oracle JavaScript Extension Toolkit : Base Distribution and extract it into the commonClient/jet directory

Open a prompt in the dino-date/commonClient/jet directory

```
bower install
```

## AngularJS
Open a prompt in the dino-date/commonClient/angularJS directory

```
bower install
```

## Restful API Tier by Language
You can install one or more languages.  They can be run simultaneously as long as the configured ports are different.

## Python

### Prerequisites
[Oracle Instant Client Basic and SDK Packages](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/instant-client/index-097480.html).

#### Software
* Python 3.x
* Modules
  * cx_Oracle
  * bottle
  * os

### Installation
Open a prompt in the dino-date/python directory

```
pip install cx_Oracle
pip install bottle
```

## Node.js

### Prerequisites
[Oracle Instant Client Basic and SDK Packages](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/instant-client/index-097480.html).

#### Software
* Node.js
* Modules
   * async
   * body-parser
   * express
   * jsonwebtoken
   * morgan
   * oracledb
   * serve-static

### Installation
Open a prompt in the dino-date/nodejs directory

```
npm install
```

## Configure Your Environment

DinoDate uses environment variables for database connection and port settings.

Create the following environment variables using the correct values for your system.
* dd_connectString=localhost:1521/orcl
* dd_user=dd
* dd_password=dd
* dd_port=8888
* dd_python_port=8080
* dd_node_port=3000
* dd_clientAppCodeDir=jet
* dd_python_clientAppCodeDir=jet
* dd_node_clientAppCodeDir=jet

Variables such as dd_port and dd_clientAppCodeDir have language specific variations if you would like to run multiple environments at the same time.

If you only plan to run one at at time you do not need to include the language variations.

## Ruby
Coming Soon!

## PHP
Coming Soon!
